Kubecon blog (#2038)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/kubecon-2019/index.md

---
title: "KubeCon NA 2019: Are you about to break Prod?"

> date: 2019-11-26

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2019-12-13
```

> meta_desc: "In this post, we recap and add more details to our KubeCon talk on setting up ephemeral environments. We will highlight how to acceptance test your application and infrastructure using ephemeral environments."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
meta_desc: "Acceptance Testing with Ephemeral Environments."
```

Reviewer 2: FYI only, the SEO folks encouraged us to not get too long on titles, etc.   the "hygiene" tools like shorter titles, descs, etc.

meta_image: demo-arch.jpg
authors: ["erin-krengel"]
tags: ["testing", "ephemeral environments", "KubeCon", "kubernetes"]
---

> A couple of weeks ago, my colleague Sean and I had the opportunity to present "Are you about to break prod? Acceptance Testing with Ephemeral Environments" at KubeCon NA 2019. In this talk, we covered what is an ephemeral environment, how to create one, and then we walked the audience through a concrete example. Given our limited time, we had to move quickly through a ton of information. Today, I will recap our presentation and add a few more details we weren't able to cover.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
My colleague Sean and I had the opportunity to present, "Are you about to break prod? Acceptance Testing with Ephemeral Environments" at KubeCon NA 2019. In this talk, we covered what is an ephemeral environment, how to create one, and then we walked the audience through a concrete example. Given our limited time, we had to move quickly through a ton of information. This article recaps our presentation and add a few more details we weren't able to cover.
```

<!--more-->

As software engineers, our job is to deliver business value. To do this, we need to be delivering software both quickly and reliably.

> So the question we ask you is: are you about to break prod? We will all break production at some point because there are things we miss. As Alexandra points out in her tweet, "failures are part of the cost of building and shipping large systems". Building a robust pipeline, allows us to move quickly in the case of failure and gain confidence around making changes to our infrastructure and applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So the question we ask you is: are you about to break prod? Everyone will break production at some point because there are things we miss. As Alexandra points out in her tweet, "failures are part of the cost of building and shipping large systems". Building a robust pipeline allows us to move quickly in the case of failure and gain confidence around making changes to our infrastructure and applications.
```

{{< tweet 1198373475049623552 >}}

> With this in mind, we will use Pulumi and GitLab to build a pipeline that validates both our application, infrastructure, and deployment process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this in mind, we use Pulumi and GitLab to build a pipeline that validates both our application, infrastructure, and deployment process.
```

## Ephemeral Environments

> What is an ephemeral environment? It is a short-lived environment that mimics our production environment. To maintain agility, we typically define the boundaries of this environment to only encompass the first-level dependencies of the particular microservice we are deploying. This means we will not spin up every single microservice or piece of infrastructure that's running in production. Yet we may need to spin up some extra pieces infrastructure to be able to properly test our microservice. For example, we may need to create a subscription to pull from a PubSub topic your microservice writes to. This subscription would allow your acceptance tests to pull from a topic in order to validate an outbound message is published.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What is an ephemeral environment? It is a short-lived environment that mimics our production environment. To maintain agility, we typically define the boundaries of this environment only to encompass the first-level dependencies of the particular microservice we are deploying. This means we do not spin up every single microservice or piece of infrastructure that's running in production. Yet we may need to spin up some extra pieces infrastructure to be able to test our microservice properly. For example, we may need to create a subscription to pull from a PubSub topic your microservice writes to. This subscription would allow your acceptance tests to pull from a topic to validate an outbound message is published.
```

## Why this is important

> Infrastructure is a key part of our application's behavior. Our architecture and requirements are constantly evolving. How can we incorporate these into our testing suite to give us a high degree of confidence?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Infrastructure is a key part of our application's behavior. Our architecture and requirements are continually evolving. How can we incorporate these into our testing suite to give us a high degree of confidence?
```

Ephemeral environments allow us to integrate our infrastructure and deployment process into our testing suite. They ensure our testing environment is always in-sync with production and therefore allows us to iterate quickly to meet new requirements.

Ephemeral environments also encourage us to lean on automated tests over manual tests. If we use ephemeral environments as a replacement for a testing environment, there is not enough time to go in and run a manual check. Shifting our mindsets to use automated tests can be challenging, yet its imperative that we do so. Automated tests guarantee our application behaves as expected today as well as months from now when we're out on vacation.

## Our Demo Application

> To demonstrate the effectiveness of integrating acceptance testing with ephemeral environments into your deployment process, we created a simple demo application. The service is written in Go and accepts a message on the `/message` endpoint, then places it in a storage bucket and sends a notification about the new object on a PubSub topic. The code for this application lives in our [main.go](https://gitlab.com/rocore/demo-app/blob/master/main.go) file. While you can walk through this code yourself, the most important thing to call out is that our application is *configurable*. This means we take configuration in at the very beginning of our main function and shut down the application if the values are not present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To demonstrate the effectiveness of integrating acceptance testing with ephemeral environments into your deployment process, we created a simple demo application. The service is written in Go and accepts a message on the `/message` endpoint, then places it in a storage bucket and sends a notification about the new object on a PubSub topic. The code for this application lives in our [main.go](https://gitlab.com/rocore/demo-app/blob/master/main.go) file. While you can walk through this code yourself, the most important thing to call out is that our application is *configurable*. It means we take configuration in at the very beginning of our main function and shut down the application if the values are not present.
```

```go
func main() {
    ...
	// Get configuration from environment variables. These are
	// required configuration values, so we will use an helper
	// function get the values and exit if the value is not set.
	project := getConfigurationValue("PROJECT")
	topicName := getConfigurationValue("TOPIC")
	bucketName := getConfigurationValue("BUCKET")
    ...
}

func getConfigurationValue(envVar string) string {
	value := os.Getenv(envVar)
	if value == "" {
		log.Fatalf("%s not set", envVar)
	}
	log.Printf("%s: %s", envVar, value)
	return value
}
```

### Infrastructure

> There are many pieces of infrastructure to spin up and we will use Pulumi to easily wire it all together. Our architecture will look this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many pieces of infrastructure to spin up, and we can use Pulumi to easily wire it all together. Our architecture looks this:
```

![demo architecture](demo-arch.jpg)

> You can check out the Pulumi code that we use to reproduce both our ephemeral environments as well as production in the [infrastructure/index.ts](https://gitlab.com/rocore/demo-app/blob/master/infrastructure/index.ts) file. The neat thing about using Pulumi to spin up both our GCP and Kubernetes resources is that we can create the GCP resources we need and then directly reference them in our Kubernetes deployment. This ensures we're always configuring our application with the correct GCP resources for that environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check out the Pulumi code that we use to reproduce both our ephemeral environments as well as production in the [infrastructure/index.ts](https://gitlab.com/rocore/demo-app/blob/master/infrastructure/index.ts) file. The neat thing about using Pulumi is that we can create the GCP resources we need and then directly reference them in our Kubernetes deployment. Using Pulumi ensures we're always configuring our application with the correct GCP resources for that environment.
```

For example, in our Kubernetes deployment, we set the environment variables by using the topic and bucket variables created just above.

```typescript
// Create a K8s Deployment for our application.
const appLabels = { appClass: name };
const deployment = new k8s.apps.v1.Deployment(name, {
    metadata: { labels: appLabels },
    spec: {
        selector: { matchLabels: appLabels },
        template: {
            metadata: { labels: appLabels },
            spec: {
                containers: [{
                    ...
                    env: [
                        { name: "TOPIC", value: topic.name }, // referencing topic just created
                        { name: "BUCKET", value: bucket.name }, // referencing bucket just created
                        { name: "PROJECT", value: project },
                        {
                            name: "GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS",
                            value: "/var/secrets/google/key.json"
                        },
                    ],
                    ...
                }]
            }
        }
    },
});
```

### Acceptance Tests

> Our acceptance tests are what validate that our service when stood up function as expected. They are run against an ephemeral environment. The tests live in the `acceptance/acceptance_test.go` [file](https://gitlab.com/rocore/demo-app/blob/master/acceptance/acceptance_test.go). You'll notice we're once again using that helper function `getConfigurationValue`. Our acceptance test must also be configured to ensure they're validating against the correct resources for that particular ephemeral environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our acceptance tests validate that our service functions as expected; they are run against an ephemeral environment. The tests live in the `acceptance/acceptance_test.go` [file](https://gitlab.com/rocore/demo-app/blob/master/acceptance/acceptance_test.go). You'll notice we're once again using that helper function `getConfigurationValue`. Our acceptance tests must also be configured to ensure they're validating against the correct resources.
```

> Our acceptance tests are what validate that our service when stood up function as expected. They are run against an ephemeral environment. The tests live in the `acceptance/acceptance_test.go` [file](https://gitlab.com/rocore/demo-app/blob/master/acceptance/acceptance_test.go). You'll notice we're once again using that helper function `getConfigurationValue`. Our acceptance test must also be configured to ensure they're validating against the correct resources for that particular ephemeral environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our acceptance tests validate that our service when stood up functions as expected. We run our tests against an ephemeral environment. The tests live in the `acceptance/acceptance_test.go` [file](https://gitlab.com/rocore/demo-app/blob/master/acceptance/acceptance_test.go). You'll notice we're once again using that helper function `getConfigurationValue`. We must configure our acceptance tests to ensure they're validating against the correct resources for that particular ephemeral environment.
```

> Since our service is only accessible from within the Kubernetes cluster, we will use a Kubernetes Job to run our acceptance tests. This is a good technique to use when your CI is running externally, such as from GitLab, and you do not want to publicly expose your service. Our ephemeral environment plus acceptance test looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since our service is only accessible from within the Kubernetes cluster, we use a Kubernetes Job to run our acceptance tests.  Using a Kubernetes job is a good technique to use when your CI is external, and you do not want to expose your service publicly. Our ephemeral environment plus acceptance test looks like this:
```

![acceptance test architecture](acceptance-test-arch.jpg)

We spin up our Kubernetes Job and additional resources by using an if statement at the bottom of our `infrastructure/index.ts` file. The conditional depends on the environment's name as follows:

```typescript
// If it's a test environment, set up acceptance tests.
let job: k8s.batch.v1.Job | undefined;
if (ENV.startsWith("test")) {
    job = acceptance.setupAcceptanceTests({
        ...
    });
}

// Export the acceptance job name, so we can get the logs from our
// acceptance tests.
export const acceptanceJobName = job ? job.metadata.name : "unapplicable";
```

> That covers all the major aspects of our application and infrastructure, and if you'd like to view the code in detail it is all available for reference in our `demo-app` [GitLab repository](https://gitlab.com/rocore/demo-app).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That covers all the major aspects of our application and infrastructure, and if you'd like to view the code in detail, it is available in our `demo-app` [GitLab repository](https://gitlab.com/rocore/demo-app).
```

## Our Pipeline

When developing a new service, we must establish a solid deployment strategy upfront. We want to make sure we're building in quality from day one. As we develop the service, we can add acceptance tests for every feature we add while the context and requirements are still fresh in our minds. This ensures we have thorough coverage of our app's functionality.

> We used GitLab to set up our pipeline. We chose GitLab because it's extremely easy to set up and allows us to run our pipeline on our Docker image of choice. We use a [base-image](https://gitlab.com/rocore/global-infra/blob/master/base-image/Dockerfile) that has all our dependencies installed and then reference that Docker image and tag in our `demo-app` pipeline. This allows us to bundle and version the dependencies for building our application and infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We used GitLab to set up our pipeline. We chose GitLab because it's straightforward to set up and allows us to run our pipeline on our Docker image of choice. We use a [base-image](https://gitlab.com/rocore/global-infra/blob/master/base-image/Dockerfile) that has all our dependencies installed and then reference that Docker image and tag in our `demo-app` pipeline. The Docker image allows us to bundle and version the dependencies for building our application and infrastructure.
```

![gitlab ci pipeline](gitlab-ci.png)

> 1. **Test and Build** - This runs our unit tests and builds both our application and acceptance test images. To build our images, we used [Kaniko](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko), a tool for building images within a container or Kubernetes cluster. GitLab has great documentation on [how to incorporate Kaniko](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/docker/using_kaniko.html) into your pipeline. The application image is an immutable image that is used for both running our acceptance tests and deploying to production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Test and Build** - This runs our unit tests and builds both our application and acceptance test images. To build our images, we used [Kaniko](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko), a tool for building images within a container or Kubernetes cluster. GitLab has excellent documentation on [how to incorporate Kaniko](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/docker/using_kaniko.html) into your pipeline. The application image is an immutable image that is used for both running our acceptance tests and deploying to production.
```

> 1. **Acceptance Test** - This is what spins up our ephemeral environments and runs our acceptance tests. This acts as a quality gate catching issues before production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Acceptance Test** - This is what spins up our ephemeral environments and runs our acceptance tests. It acts as a quality gate catching issues before production.
```

        --- PASS: TestSimpleHappyPath/message_is_sent_to_PubSub_topic (2.21s)
        --- PASS: TestSimpleHappyPath/message_is_stored_in_bucket (0.17s)
            acceptance_test.go:152: Stored message: map[message:Ruby is awesome!!!]
    === RUN   TestSimpleSadPath
    === RUN   TestSimpleSadPath/posting_a_incorrectly_formatted_message_returns_400
    --- PASS: TestSimpleSadPath (0.00s)
        --- PASS: TestSimpleSadPath/posting_a_incorrectly_formatted_message_returns_400 (0.00s)
    PASS
    ok  	gitlab.com/rocore/demo-app	4.174s
    $ kubectl logs -n rocore --selector=appClass=$ENV-demo-app --tail=200
    2019/11/16 21:55:22 PROJECT: rocore-k8s
    2019/11/16 21:55:22 TOPIC: test-96425413-demo-app-4f3f3c0
    2019/11/16 21:55:22 BUCKET: test-96425413-demo-app-08f572c
    2019/11/16 21:55:22 starting server
    2019/11/16 21:59:03 writing to bucket
    2019/11/16 21:59:03 writing to PubSub
    $ pulumi destroy --skip-preview -s rocore/$ENV-app
    Destroying (rocore/test-96425413-app):
    ...
    Resources:
        - 16 deleted

    Duration: 24s

    Permalink: https://app.pulumi.com/rocore/demo-app/test-96425413-app/updates/2
    ...
    ```

> 1. **Prod Pulumi Preview** - This is what previews changes to our production infrastructure. Some teams may choose to start with this stage as a manual gate and then switch to an automatic stage once they've built up confidence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Prod Pulumi Preview** - This is what previews changes to our production infrastructure. Some teams may choose to start with this stage as a manual gate and then switch to an automated stage once they've built up confidence.
```

    ```bash
    $ pulumi stack select rocore/demo-app/prod
    Logging in using access token from PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN
    $ pulumi config set DOCKER_TAG $DOCKER_TAG
    $ pulumi preview
    Previewing update (rocore/prod):

        pulumi:pulumi:Stack demo-app-prod running
        pulumi:pulumi:Stack demo-app-prod running read pulumi:pulumi:StackReference rocore/global-infra/global-infra
        pulumi:pulumi:Stack demo-app-prod running read pulumi:pulumi:StackReference rocore/global-infra/global-infra
        pulumi:providers:kubernetes prod-demo-app  
        gcp:storage:Bucket prod-demo-app  
        gcp:pubsub:Topic prod-demo-app  
        gcp:serviceAccount:Key prod-demo-app  
        kubernetes:core:Service prod-demo-app  
        gcp:pubsub:TopicIAMMember prod-demo-app  
        kubernetes:core:Secret prod-demo-app  
        gcp:storage:BucketIAMMember prod-demo-app  
     ~  kubernetes:apps:Deployment prod-demo-app update [diff: ~spec]
        pulumi:pulumi:Stack demo-app-prod  

    Outputs:
    ...

    Resources:
        ~ 1 to update
        9 unchanged

    Permalink: https://app.pulumi.com/...
    ```

> 1. **Prod Pulumi Up** - This is what is actually performs changes to our production infrastructure and releases our production deployment. This only gets run on master.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Prod Pulumi Up** - This is what is performs changes to our production infrastructure and releases our production deployment. This only gets run on master.
```

For more details on how to set this up, you can view the GitLab configuration for setting up this pipeline in our [.gitlab-ci.yml](https://gitlab.com/rocore/demo-app/blob/master/.gitlab-ci.yml) file.

## Creating Ephemeral Environments

> While we walked through a lot of code today, the diff between what we would need to run our application in production and the extra code that we need for our ephemeral environment is quite minimal. The following is what enables us to create ephemeral environments:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While we walked through a lot of code today, the difference between what we need for Production and the extra code required for our ephemeral environment is quite minimal. The following is what enables us to create ephemeral environments:
```

> While we walked through a lot of code today, the diff between what we would need to run our application in production and the extra code that we need for our ephemeral environment is quite minimal. The following is what enables us to create ephemeral environments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although we reviewed much code, the diff between what we would need to run our application in production and the extra code needed for an ephemeral environment is quite minimal. The following is what enables us to create ephemeral environments:
```

> 1. **Infrastructure as Code** - This allowed us to create a consistently reproducible environment. Using an IaC tool means we can use the same code to define our infrastructure in both our ephemeral environment and production, giving us a high degree of confidence that production is accurately being mimicked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Infrastructure as Code** - This allowed us to create a consistently reproducible environment.  Using an IaC tool enables us to use the same code to define our infrastructure in both our ephemeral and production environments. It gives us a high degree of confidence that we are mimicking production accurately.
```

> 1. **Unique name for our ephemeral environment** -  We used GitLab's pipeline ID and set our environment name to be `test-$CI_PIPELINE_ID`. Having a unique name for our ephemeral environment, allows us to run multiple tests (and therefore multiple pipelines) at once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Unique name for our ephemeral environment** -  We used GitLab's pipeline ID and set our environment name to be `test-$CI_PIPELINE_ID`. Having a unique name for our ephemeral environment allows us to run multiple tests (and multiple pipelines) at once.
```

> 1. **Configurable infrastructure** - We prepended our environment name to all the resources we create. This allowed us to easily distinguish our test resources and make sure resources don't conflict if we're running multiple tests at once. This also means if something goes wrong and we have lingering resources, we can use regex and a cron job to clean up these extra resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Configurable infrastructure** - We prepended our environment name to all the resources we create. This allowed us to distinguish our test resources and ensure that resources don't conflict when running multiple tests at once. It also means that if something goes wrong, and we have lingering resources, we can use regex and a cron job to clean up these extra resources.
```

> 1. **Configurable application & tests** - We made both our application and tests configurable ensuring they are always using the correct resources for their environment. This allows us to deploy the same immutable image of our application to run our acceptance tests against as we deploy to production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Configurable application & tests** - We made both our application and tests configurable, ensuring they are always using the right resources for their environment. We can deploy the same immutable image of our application to run our acceptance tests against as we deploy to production.
```

1. **Conditionally provision test infrastructure**- There some extra pieces of infrastructure needed to acceptance test our application. We needed to be able to conditionally provision these extra pieces as well as our test itself during an acceptance test.

1. **Clean up resources** - We needed to be able to cleanly tear down all the resources we created for our ephemeral environment. We used the `pulumi destroy` command to do this.

> 1. **Tradeoffs** - Some resources can take longer to spin up than others. For example, a brand new Kubernetes cluster takes considerably longer to spin up than a new PubSub topic. You will need to balance the speed of your tests with how closely the environment mimics production. We chose to place these longer-lived resources in a separate [GitLab repository](https://gitlab.com/rocore/global-infra) called `global-infra`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Tradeoffs** - Some resources can take longer to spin up than others. For example, a brand new Kubernetes cluster takes considerably longer to spin up than a new PubSub topic. You need to balance the speed of your tests with how closely the environment mimics production. We chose to place these longer-lived resources in a separate [GitLab repository](https://gitlab.com/rocore/global-infra) called `global-infra`.
```

    We reference these longer-lived pieces of infrastructure in our `demo-app` by using a [stack reference](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/organizing-stacks-projects/#inter-stack-dependencies).

    ```typescript
    const globalStackRef = new pulumi.StackReference("rocore/global-infra/global-infra");
    ```

## Recap

> To maintain agility, we need a process that thorough tests our application and gives us the confidence to move quickly. Using ephemeral environments to run our acceptance tests allows us to test our application, infrastructure and deployment process all at once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To maintain agility, we need a process that thorough tests our application and gives us the confidence to move quickly. Using ephemeral environments to run our acceptance tests allows us to test our application, infrastructure, and deployment process all at once.
```

> Pulumi and GitLab are both open source and you can get started today for free! Some resources to get you going:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pulumi and GitLab are both open-source, and you can get started today for free! Some resources to get you going:
```

* [Pulumi Get Started](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/get-started/)
* [GitLab Get Started](https://about.gitlab.com/get-started/)

> Lastly, if you're interested in watching Sean and my KubeCon presentation here is the recording:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lastly, if you're interested in watching our KubeCon presentation here is the recording:
```

---
title: "KubeCon NA 2019: Are you about to break Prod?"
date: 2019-11-26
draft: true
meta_desc: "In this post, we recap and add more details to our KubeCon talk on setting up ephemeral environments. We will highlight how to acceptance test your application and infrastructure using ephemeral environments."
meta_image: demo-arch.jpg
authors: ["erin-krengel"]
tags: ["testing", "ephemeral environments", "KubeCon", "kubernetes"]
---

Last week, my colleague Sean and I had the opportunity to present "Are you about to break prod? Acceptance Testing with Ephemeral Environments" at KubeCon NA 2019. In this talk, we covered what is an ephemeral environment, what is required to create one, and then we walked the audience through a concrete example of how to create one. Given our limited time, we had to move quickly through a ton of information. Today, I will recap our presentation and add a few more details we weren't able to cover.

<!--more-->

As software engineers, our job is to deliver business value. To do this, we need to be delivering software both quickly and reliably.

> So the question we ask you is: are you about to break prod? We will all break production at some point because there's things we miss. As Alexandra points out in her tweet, "failures are part of the cost of building and shipping large systems". Building a robust pipeline, allows us to move quickly in the case of failure and gain confidence around making changes to our infrastructure and applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So the question we ask you is: are you about to break prod? We will all break production at some point because there are things we miss. As Alexandra points out in her tweet, "failures are part of the cost of building and shipping large systems". Building a robust pipeline, allows us to move quickly in the case of failure and gain confidence around making changes to our infrastructure and applications.
```

{{< tweet 1198373475049623552 >}}

With this in mind, we will use Pulumi and GitLab to build a pipeline that validates both our application, infrastructure, and deployment process.

## Ephemeral Environments

> What is an ephemeral environment? It is a short-lived environment that mimics our production environment. To maintain agility, we typically define the boundaries of this environment to only encompass the first-level dependencies of the particular microservice we are deploying. This means, we will not spin up every single microservice or piece of infrastructure thats running in production. Yet we may need to spin up some extra pieces infrastructure to be able to properly test our microservice. For example, we may need to create a subscription to pull from a PubSub topic your microservice writes to.

Reviewer 3: I think the part about needing to spin up extra pieces of infrastructure may need slightly more elaboration, or maybe just a clearer transition because it is somewhat of separate thought.
```Yet we may need to spin up some extra pieces infrastructure to be able to properly test our microservice. For example, we may need to create a subscription to pull from a PubSub topic your microservice writes to.```
I understand it perfectly, but someone who is reading about this for the first time may not follow so easily. Maybe saying explicitly, "the reason we need the subscription is because our acceptance test will need to pull from it in order to make validations....." or something along those lines. We have not really mentioned anything about the acceptance tests up until this point, so it may be hard to get context. Just my opinion though, as it is hard for me to judge because I already know the material.

> What is an ephemeral environment? It is a short-lived environment that mimics our production environment. To maintain agility, we typically define the boundaries of this environment to only encompass the first-level dependencies of the particular microservice we are deploying. This means, we will not spin up every single microservice or piece of infrastructure thats running in production. Yet we may need to spin up some extra pieces infrastructure to be able to properly test our microservice. For example, we may need to create a subscription to pull from a PubSub topic your microservice writes to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What is an ephemeral environment? It is a short-lived environment that mimics our production environment. To maintain agility, we typically define the boundaries of this environment to only encompass the first-level dependencies of the particular microservice we are deploying. This means we will not spin up every single microservice or piece of infrastructure that's running in production. Yet we may need to spin up some extra pieces infrastructure to be able to properly test our microservice. For example, we may need to create a subscription to pull from a PubSub topic your microservice writes to.
```

## Why this is important

> Infrastructure is often a key part of our application's behavior. Our architecture and requirements are constantly evolving. How can we incorporate these into our testing suite to give us a high degree of confidence?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Infrastructure is a key part of our application's behavior. Our architecture and requirements are constantly evolving. How can we incorporate these into our testing suite to give us a high degree of confidence?
```

Ephemeral environments allow us to integrate our infrastructure and deployment process into our testing suite. They ensure our testing environment is always in-sync with production and therefore allows us to iterate quickly to meet new requirements.

Ephemeral environments also encourage us to lean on automated tests over manual tests. If we use ephemeral environments as a replacement for a testing environment, there is not enough time to go in and run a manual check. Shifting our mindsets to use automated tests can be challenging, yet its imperative that we do so. Automated tests guarantee our application behaves as expected today as well as months from now when we're out on vacation.

## Our Demo Application

> To demonstrate the effectiveness of integrating acceptance testing with ephemeral environments into your deployment process, we created a simple demo application. The service is written in Go and accepts a message on the `/message` endpoint, then places it in a storage bucket and sends a notification about the new object on a PubSub topic. The code for this application lives in our [main.go](https://gitlab.com/rocore/demo-app/blob/master/main.go) file. While you can walk through this code yourself, the most important thing to call out is that our application is configurable. This means we take configuration in at the very beginning of our main function and shut down the application if the values are not present.

Reviewer 3: Maybe bold or italicize configurable just to make it stand out because I think it one of the super key points in our
presentation. Just a suggestion.

"the most important thing to call out is that our application is **_configurable_**"

```go
func main() {
    ...
	// Get configuration from environment variables. These are
	// required configuration values, so we will use an helper
	// function get the values and exit if the value is not set.
	project := getConfigurationValue("PROJECT")
	topicName := getConfigurationValue("TOPIC")
	bucketName := getConfigurationValue("BUCKET")
    ...
}

func getConfigurationValue(envVar string) string {
	value := os.Getenv(envVar)
	if value == "" {
		log.Fatalf("%s not set", envVar)
	}
	log.Printf("%s: %s", envVar, value)
	return value
}
```

### Infrastructure

> There a many pieces of infrastructure we will need to spin up and we will use Pulumi to easily wire it all together. Our architecture will look this this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There a many pieces of infrastructure to spin up and we will use Pulumi to easily wire it all together. Our architecture will look this this:
```

![demo architecture](demo-arch.jpg)

> You can check out the Pulumi code that we use to reproducibly create both our ephemeral environments as well as production in the [infrastructure/index.ts](https://gitlab.com/rocore/demo-app/blob/master/infrastructure/index.ts) file. The neat thing about using Pulumi to spin up both our GCP and Kubernetes resources is that we can create the GCP resources we need and then directly reference them in our Kubernetes deployment. This ensures we're always configuring our application with the correct GCP resources for that environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check out the Pulumi code that we use to reproduce both our ephemeral environments as well as production in the [infrastructure/index.ts](https://gitlab.com/rocore/demo-app/blob/master/infrastructure/index.ts) file. The neat thing about using Pulumi to spin up both our GCP and Kubernetes resources is that we can create the GCP resources we need and then directly reference them in our Kubernetes deployment. This ensures we're always configuring our application with the correct GCP resources for that environment.
```

> For example, in our Kubernetes deployment we set the environment variables by using the topic and bucket variables created just above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, in our Kubernetes deployment, we set the environment variables by using the topic and bucket variables created just above.
```

```typescript
// Create a K8s Deployment for our application.
const appLabels = { appClass: name };
const deployment = new k8s.apps.v1.Deployment(name, {
    metadata: { labels: appLabels },
    spec: {
        selector: { matchLabels: appLabels },
        template: {
            metadata: { labels: appLabels },
            spec: {
                containers: [{
                    ...
                    env: [
                        { name: "TOPIC", value: topic.name }, // referencing topic just created
                        { name: "BUCKET", value: bucket.name }, // referencing bucket just created
                        { name: "PROJECT", value: project },
                        {
                            name: "GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS",
                            value: "/var/secrets/google/key.json"
                        },
                    ],
                    ...
                }]
            }
        }
    },
});
```

### Acceptance Tests

> Our acceptance tests are what validate that our service when stood up function as expected. They are run against an ephemeral environment. The test live in the `acceptance/acceptance_test.go` [file](https://gitlab.com/rocore/demo-app/blob/master/acceptance/acceptance_test.go). You'll notice we're once again using that helper function `getConfigurationValue`. Our acceptance test must also be configured to ensure they're validating against the correct resources for that particular ephemeral environment.

Reviewer 3: small grammatical error ```The test live in the `acceptance/acceptance_test.go` ```

> Since our service is only accessible from within the Kubernetes cluster, we will use a Kubernetes Job to run our acceptance tests. This is a good technique to use when your CI is running externally, such as from GitLab, and you do not want to publicly expose your service. Our ephemeral environment plus acceptance test look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since our service is only accessible from within the Kubernetes cluster, we will use a Kubernetes Job to run our acceptance tests. This is a good technique to use when your CI is running externally, such as from GitLab, and you do not want to publicly expose your service. Our ephemeral environment plus acceptance test looks like this:
```

![acceptance test architecture](acceptance-test-arch.jpg)

We spin up our Kubernetes Job and additional resources by using an if statement at the bottom of our `infrastructure/index.ts` file. The conditional depends on the environment's name as follows:

```typescript
// If it's a test environment, set up acceptance tests.
let job: k8s.batch.v1.Job | undefined;
if (ENV.startsWith("test")) {
    job = acceptance.setupAcceptanceTests({
        ...
    });
}

// Export the acceptance job name, so we can get the logs from our
// acceptance tests.
export const acceptanceJobName = job ? job.metadata.name : "unapplicable";
```

That covers all the major aspects of our application and infrastructure, and if you'd like to view the code in detail it is all available for reference in our `demo-app` [GitLab repository](https://gitlab.com/rocore/demo-app).

## Our Pipeline

> When developing a new service, it’s important that we establish a solid deployment strategy upfront. We want to make sure we're building in quality from day one. As we develop the service, we can add acceptance tests for each and every feature we add while the context and requirements are still fresh in our minds. This ensures we have thorough coverage of our app's functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When developing a new service, we must establish a solid deployment strategy upfront. We want to make sure we're building in quality from day one. As we develop the service, we can add acceptance tests for every feature we add while the context and requirements are still fresh in our minds. This ensures we have thorough coverage of our app's functionality.
```

> We used GitLab to set up our pipeline. We chose GitLab because its extremely easy to set up and allows us to run our pipeline on our Docker image of choice. We use a [base-image](https://gitlab.com/rocore/global-infra/blob/master/base-image/Dockerfile) that has all our dependencies installed and then reference that Docker image and tag in our `demo-app` pipeline. This allows us to bundle and version the dependencies for building our application and infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We used GitLab to set up our pipeline. We chose GitLab because it's extremely easy to set up and allows us to run our pipeline on our Docker image of choice. We use a [base-image](https://gitlab.com/rocore/global-infra/blob/master/base-image/Dockerfile) that has all our dependencies installed and then reference that Docker image and tag in our `demo-app` pipeline. This allows us to bundle and version the dependencies for building our application and infrastructure.
```

![gitlab ci pipeline](gitlab-ci.png)

1. **Test and Build** - This runs our unit tests and builds both our application and acceptance test images. The application image is an immutable image that is used for both running our acceptance tests and deploying to production.

> 1. **Acceptance Test** - This is what spins up our ephemeral environments and runs our acceptance tests. This acts a quality gate catching issues prior to production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Acceptance Test** - This is what spins up our ephemeral environments and runs our acceptance tests. This acts as a quality gate catching issues before production.
```

>     Our ephemeral environment and Kubernetes job are all spun up in the `script`.

Reviewer 3: A little more explicit, like "in the script portion of the acceptance test job definition" or something for users who are not too familiar with gitlab config files.

    ```bash
    ...
    $ pulumi stack init rocore/$ENV-app
    Logging in using access token from PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN
    Created stack 'rocore/test-96425413-app'
    $ pulumi config set DOCKER_TAG $DOCKER_TAG
    $ pulumi config set ENV $ENV
    $ pulumi config set gcp:project rocore-k8s
    $ pulumi config set gcp:zone us-west1-a
    $ pulumi up --skip-preview
    Updating (rocore/test-96425413-app):
    ...
    Resources:
        + 16 created

    Duration: 4m10s

    Permalink: https://app.pulumi.com/rocore/demo-app/test-96425413-app/updates/1
    ```

>     The after script destroys our stack as well as prints the logs of both our Kubernetes Job and Deployment, which are helpful for debugging if our tests were to fail.

Reviewer 3: "codify" after script with back ticks, only because we did it when we said script.

Also, maybe call out that after-script runs either way, whether the job succeeds or fails, so our ephemeral resources are always  cleaned up. Not sure if this is necessary though.

>     The after script destroys our stack as well as prints the logs of both our Kubernetes Job and Deployment, which are helpful for debugging if our tests were to fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The after script destroys our stack as well as prints the logs of both our Kubernetes Job and Deployment, which help with debugging if our tests were to fail.
```

        --- PASS: TestSimpleHappyPath/message_is_sent_to_PubSub_topic (2.21s)
        --- PASS: TestSimpleHappyPath/message_is_stored_in_bucket (0.17s)
            acceptance_test.go:152: Stored message: map[message:Ruby is awesome!!!]
    === RUN   TestSimpleSadPath
    === RUN   TestSimpleSadPath/posting_a_incorrectly_formatted_message_returns_400
    --- PASS: TestSimpleSadPath (0.00s)
        --- PASS: TestSimpleSadPath/posting_a_incorrectly_formatted_message_returns_400 (0.00s)
    PASS
    ok  	gitlab.com/rocore/demo-app	4.174s
    $ kubectl logs -n rocore --selector=appClass=$ENV-demo-app --tail=200
    2019/11/16 21:55:22 PROJECT: rocore-k8s
    2019/11/16 21:55:22 TOPIC: test-96425413-demo-app-4f3f3c0
    2019/11/16 21:55:22 BUCKET: test-96425413-demo-app-08f572c
    2019/11/16 21:55:22 starting server
    2019/11/16 21:59:03 writing to bucket
    2019/11/16 21:59:03 writing to PubSub
    $ pulumi destroy --skip-preview -s rocore/$ENV-app
    Destroying (rocore/test-96425413-app):
    ...
    Resources:
        - 16 deleted

    Duration: 24s

    Permalink: https://app.pulumi.com/rocore/demo-app/test-96425413-app/updates/2
    ...
    ```

> 1. **Prod Pulumi Preview** - This is what preview changes to our production infrastructure. Some teams may choose to start with this stage as manual gate and then switch to an automatic stage once they've built up confidence.

Reviewer 3: small grammar error: `previews`

> 1. **Prod Pulumi Preview** - This is what preview changes to our production infrastructure. Some teams may choose to start with this stage as manual gate and then switch to an automatic stage once they've built up confidence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Prod Pulumi Preview** - This is what preview changes to our production infrastructure. Some teams may choose to start with this stage as a manual gate and then switch to an automatic stage once they've built up confidence.
```

1. **Infrastructure as Code** - This allowed us to create a consistently reproducible environment. Using an IaC tool means we can use the same code to define our infrastructure in both our ephemeral environment and production, giving us a high degree of confidence that production is accurately being mimicked.

1. **Unique name for our ephemeral environment** -  We used GitLab's pipeline ID and set our environment name to be `test-$CI_PIPELINE_ID`. Having a unique name for our ephemeral environment, allows us to run multiple tests (and therefore multiple pipelines) at once.

1. **Configurable infrastructure** - We prepended our environment name to all the resources we create. This allowed us to easily distinguish our test resources and make sure resources don't conflict if we're running multiple tests at once. This also means if something goes wrong and we have lingering resources, we can use regex and a cron job to clean up these extra resources.

> 1. **Configurable application & tests** - We made both our application and tests configurable ensuring they are always using the correct resources for their environment. This allows us to deploy the exact same immutable image of our application to run our acceptance tests against as we deploy to production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Configurable application & tests** - We made both our application and tests configurable ensuring they are always using the correct resources for their environment. This allows us to deploy the same immutable image of our application to run our acceptance tests against as we deploy to production.
```

1. **Conditionally provision test infrastructure**- There some extra pieces of infrastructure needed to acceptance test our application. We needed to be able to conditionally provision these extra pieces as well as our test itself during an acceptance test.

1. **Clean up resources** - We needed to be able to cleanly tear down all the resources we created for our ephemeral environment. We used the `pulumi destroy` command to do this.

> 1. **Tradeoffs** - There are some resources that take longer to spin up than others. For example, a brand new Kubernetes cluster takes considerably longer to spin up than a new PubSub topic. You will need to balance the speed of your tests with how closely the environment mimics production. We chose to place these longer lived resources in a separate [GitLab repository](https://gitlab.com/rocore/global-infra) called `global-infra`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Tradeoffs** - There are some resources that take longer to spin up than others. For example, a brand new Kubernetes cluster takes considerably longer to spin up than a new PubSub topic. You will need to balance the speed of your tests with how closely the environment mimics production. We chose to place these longer-lived resources in a separate [GitLab repository](https://gitlab.com/rocore/global-infra) called `global-infra`.
```

> 1. **Tradeoffs** - There are some resources that take longer to spin up than others. For example, a brand new Kubernetes cluster takes considerably longer to spin up than a new PubSub topic. You will need to balance the speed of your tests with how closely the environment mimics production. We chose to place these longer lived resources in a separate [GitLab repository](https://gitlab.com/rocore/global-infra) called `global-infra`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Tradeoffs** - Some resources can take longer to spin up than others. For example, a brand new Kubernetes cluster takes considerably longer to spin up than a new PubSub topic. You will need to balance the speed of your tests with how closely the environment mimics production. We chose to place these longer lived resources in a separate [GitLab repository](https://gitlab.com/rocore/global-infra) called `global-infra`.
```

>     We reference these longer lived pieces of infrastructure in our `demo-app` by using a [stack reference](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/organizing-stacks-projects/#inter-stack-dependencies).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    We reference these longer-lived pieces of infrastructure in our `demo-app` by using a [stack reference](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/organizing-stacks-projects/#inter-stack-dependencies).
```
